--- 
layout: post
title: " Nouse!"
created: 1095996627
---
<a href="http://www.theregister.co.uk/2004/09/16/nose_driven_mouse/">Nose Operated Mouse</a>. 

Imagine the plight of the user of such a mouse! Or the delight of the eager audience wishing to throw itself into splits of laughter over the various "positions" of the wonder nose! 

Or even better, remember there used to be a dance where you dip your feet in colour, and create art with your stained feet, by simultaneously dancing gracefully (Our great <a href="http://www.upperstall.com/people/mgr.html">MGR</a> forgot the "grace" part when he danced his way to painting a lion, in an old B&W movie)?. Now we will have the same competition for the nose! Who can twitch the nose gracefully AND be capable of drawing 3-d masterpieces on the computer within the shortest period of time! 

Or better still I can imagine people using their noses for SMSes. Keep the mobile phone as close to your nose ans possible and move your nose in all sorts of directions and voila! you get your sms! I can imagine the shy Singaporeans warming up to this technology as they do to weekend early morning shopping at the nearest NTUC. And soon it will be fashionable for your handphones to have shrek like webcams which vie with each other for the "power" to track your nose to the nearest millimeter. So, you will have the power to configure "shortcuts" to your nose movements (something like "mouse gestures" in Moz and Opera). A small twitch of the nose will quicky send a "#@$%" reply to the most recent sms! Though I really am not sure how people with running noses, twitching every few seconds in all random directions, will manage their SMSes. 

Ah and I was thinking of getting a new mouse! Why am I so old fashioned?
