--- 
layout: post
title: " The Nimbupani Web Experience"
created: 1096269883
---
I have loved the web ever since I discovered blogs and bloglines. I have never been a TV addict but the web put an end to whatever little I was watching on T.V. But being online and surfing the net for sixteen hours a day, I have some complaints. These arent major but something we should start looking at, before <a href="http://www.technorati.com">technorati</a> becomes the new google. 

<strong>Domain Names:</strong> Really really pathetically organized as of now. We have some random domains ".net", ".org", ".com", ".name" and countless countries. But why not have a domain name by category? Say, ".movie"? or ".tv" (".tv" is the domain name of a tiny island which is <a href="http://news.cnet.com/news/0-1007-200-1878760.html">minting millions</a> out of it)? Or ".food"? Because normally, websites are established not for specific countries but for the entire world. Web is another medium of advertisement and a quick one for a small company to showcase its potential to the whole world. In that case, if I were a small entrepreneur, I would rather get a domain name that will focus on my niche market rather than fight with the rest for the ".com" names. This will clear up the clutter in .com names and we will have websites with names that are relevant and not like the one you are currently reading :) . 

Another advantage: if we have my dream browser, we will have a text parser that will function similar to the DOS text parser. Type ".food", it returns a list of the top ".food" sites (using an appropriate search engine). 

<strong>Browser:</strong> Now this is one area I really really wish <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/3680942.stm">gbrowser</a> will do something about. You see, when you type "nimbupani.com" it goes to nimbupani.com. But if you type x.y@gmail.com then it does not go to your email directly! Why shouldnt it? why cant a browser detect an email and directly go to the Inbox if the appropriate cookies are set? Why should I type "gmail.google.com" and then click another button over there. Agreed, it s a good torture technique but really after all these years, its time to get over it and invent a better process?

<strong>Organizer:</strong> I know people are already doing lots of stuff on this. Basically something like a dashboard within a browser which lots of people have predicted gbrowser will have. A <a href="http://www.apple.com/macosx/tiger/dashboard.html">dashboard</a> with my mail, appointments, reminders, alerts when my favourite rss feeds get updated, weather and what I am planning to eat today. We can get much more information too (updates on the latest sports scores, for instance). We just need XML and the meta data stuff and you dont ever have to move your a$$ off your seat to find out the latest information. 

<strong>Storage:</strong> In India, it takes years and years to keep waiting for a website to load. Why not use a <a href="http://bitconjurer.org/BitTorrent/introduction.html">bittorrent</a> type of web server? Maybe use a distributed web server? I wonder why nobody has come up with a hosting solution using distributed storage systems? This is especially good for multimedia technologies. and for promoting the broadband experience. Even now, I would rather watch TV than webcasts. The initial download time is really slow even with 3Mbps connection. And I cant even dream of how long it will take in India where normal internet activity takes place with a 56kbps modem dial up.
